Instructor: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand a little bit
about Kubernetes architecture.
So why Kubernetes?
So Kubernetes is a portable, extensible,
open source platform for managing container workloads.
So out of the box
the following features are available in Kubernetes.
Service discovery and load balancing, storage orchestration,
automated rollouts and rollbacks, automatic bin packing
self-healing, secrets, and then configuration management.
So let's see what are the Kubernetes components
in its architecture, right?
So primarily, we see like we'll have both master
and then worker nodes in the Kubernetes.
And on all these nodes we'll have
the container runtime installed.
Whether it is master or worker nodes
container runtime is mandatory and we can say it as docker
or some other container runtime options available.
And next thing is etcd.
So etcd is the key-value store
which stores the master and node information.
So one more will be Kubescheduler.
So all these things, what does these do?
We'll see in our upcoming lectures.
So, but we'll have Kube-scheduler here and Kube API server
and Kube control manager and then cloud control manager.
So that's the master components on a high level.
And in worker nodes,
we are going to have Kubelets and then Kube proxy.
So let's see one after the other,
what each of these components do
and then their responsibilities, okay.
So let's start with the master component
and then master node and inside that container run time
is a default thing.
So which might be Docker or any other run times.
And let's start with the Kube API server.
So it acts as the front end for Kubernetes control plane,
it exposes the Kubernetes API.
So CLI tools like Kubectl or even the master components
like scheduler, controller, manager, etcd
and worker node components like kubelet,
everything talk with this Kube API server.
And next is etcd.
It is a consistent and highly available key value store
used as Kubernetes backing store for all cluster data.
It stores all the master and worker node information.
So next is the kube-scheduler.
So scheduler is responsible for distributing containers
across multiple nodes.
So it watches for newly created pods with no assigned node
and select a node for them to run on.
And next is the kube-controller.
So this kube-controller manager controllers are responsible
for noticing and responding
when nodes, containers or endpoints go down.
So they make decisions to bring up new containers
in such cases.
And it is a combination of, kube controller manager
is a combination of multiple controllers inside, okay.
So let's see what are those.
So we will have one node controller, which is responsible
for noticing and responding when nodes go down.
And we will have replication controller responsible
for maintaining the correct number of pods
for every replication controller object in the system.
And endpoints controller populates the endpoints object,
that is joins, services, and then pods.
And one more, we'll have something called service account
and then token controller creates default accounts
and API access for new namespaces created in Kubernetes.
And next one we'll have one more, which is nothing
but Cloud control manager in the master nodes, okay.
So this cloud controller manager is responsible for,
means like this component
embeds cloud specific control logic.
So it is mainly for
the cloud related architecture of Kubernetes.
It only runs controllers that are specific
to that respective cloud provider.
So on-premise Kubernetes clusters
will not have this component.
And node controller for checking the cloud provider
to determine if a node has been deleted
in the cloud after it stops responding.
And you'll also have route controller for setting up routes
in the underlying cloud infrastructure.
And also same as kube controller, you'll also
have something called service controller,
which is for creating, updating and deleting
cloud provider load balancer.
So these are all the master node components
in the Kubernetes architecture, okay.
So now let's see the worker node components, okay.
So in a worker node
container runtime is going to be as usual
on every worker node.
So the underlying software where we run our stuff
is going to be the container runtime inside the work node
or whatever the VM instance in them, okay.
So we are going to use docker
but we have other runtime options like RKTR,
Containerd, et cetera.
So now one thing here is the next one is kubelet
which is the more important one.
So let's see about it, okay.
So kubelet is the agent that runs on every node
in the cluster.
So the more number of worker nodes, on every worker node
we are going to see kubelet is present inside that.
So this is the agent is responsible
for making sure that containers are running
in a pod on a specific worker node.
So, and next is the kube proxy.
So it is a network proxy that runs on each node
in your cluster, it maintains network rules on nodes.
So then what is the use of it, right?
So in short, these network rules allow network communication
to your pods from network sessions
inside or outside of our respective cluster.
So these are the core things
about Kubernetes master and then worker node components.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye, thank you.